[New] MFA for Timescale Cloud (#2012)
timescale/docs: cloud/multi-factor-authentication.md

---
title: Multi-factor user authentication
excerpt: Manage Multi-factor user authentication for your Timescale Cloud account
product: cloud
keywords: [mfa, accounts, admin]
tags: [two-factor user authentication]
---

> ## Multi-factor user authentication

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Multi-factor user authentication
```

> You can use two-factor authentication also known as 2-Step verification or 2FA
> to log in to your Timescale Cloud account. This enables secure logins that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use two-factor authentication to log in to your Timescale Cloud 
account. Two-factor authentication, also known as two-step verification 
or 2FA, enables secure logins that
```

Just trying to make sure that the first sentence doesn't get derailed too badly, and try and keep the focus on things you can do with Cloud, rather than what on earth is 2FA.

> requires a second authentication code in addition to the user password. You
> require an authentication code, provided by the Google Authenticator app on
> your mobile device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
requires an authentication code in addition to your user password. The code 
is provided by an app on your mobile device, such as Google Authenticator.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configure two-factor authentication with Google Authenticator

FIXME Some stem sentence here about Google Authenticator (as opposed to any other auth app).
```

> ### Before you begin:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you begin, make sure you have:
```

> *   Install the [Google Authenticator application][install-google-authenticator]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   Installed the [Google Authenticator application][install-google-authenticator]
```

  on your mobile device.

<procedure>

> ### Configuring two-factor authentication

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Configuring two-factor authentication with Google Authenticator
```

1.  [Log in to your Timescale Cloud account][cloud-login].
1.  Click the `User name` icon in the top-right of the console and select `Account`.

> 1.  In the `Account` page, click `Add two-factor authentication` button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  In the `Account` page, click `Add two-factor authentication`.
```

> 1.  On your mobile device, open the Google Authenticator app, tap `+` and select

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  On your mobile device, open Google Authenticator, tap `+`, and select
```

    `Scan a QR code`.
1.  On your mobile device, scan the QR code provided by Timescale Cloud in the
    `Connect to an authenticator app` dialog and click `Next`.

> 1.  Type the verification code provided by the Google Authenticator app, and click

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  In the dashboard, type the verification code provided by Google Authenticator, and click
```

    `Next`.

> 1.  In the `Save your recovery codes` dialog, you can copy, download, or print the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  In the `Save your recovery codes` dialog, copy, download, or print the
```

>     recovery codes that appear.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    recovery codes, and save them in a safe place. These are used to 
    recover your account if you lose your device.
```

> 1.  Click `ok, i saved my recovery codes` after you have saved the recovery codes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Verify that you have saved your recovery codes, by clicking `OK, I saved my recovery codes`.
```

    <highlight type="important">
    A recovery code is a backup way to log in to Timescale Cloud when you can't
    get your verification code from  your authenticator app. If you enable
    two-factor authentication, save your recovery codes.

>     </highlight>

Reviewer: I'm not sure we need this as an admonition, we can just add it in to the step about saving ☝️

>     After you add two-factor authentication, an email notification is sent to you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  If two-factor authentication is enabled correctly, an email notification is sent to you.
```

</procedure>

<highlight type="warning">
If you lose access to the mobile device you use for multi-factor

> authentication, you cannot sign in to your TimescaleDB Cloud

Reviewer: ```suggestion
authentication, and you do not have access to your recovery codes, you cannot sign in to your TimescaleDB Cloud
```

Reviewer: I wonder if this needs to go underneath the procedure about recovery codes?

account. To regain access to your account, on the login screen, click
`Forgot password?` and follow the step to reset your password. When you have
regained access to your account, reconfigure multi-factor authentication.

> </highlight>

Author: Hi @lukas-bernert  I was not sure about this. I just documented my understanding of what would happen.

Reviewer 2: If they lose their device and their codes there is no way of getting access back to their account.
"Forgot password" doesn't help there as the "forgot password" flow still requires an 2FA challenge.

In this case users have to reach out to support@timescale.com . 
From there we need to verify the user's identity so we can eventually give them access back.

> ### Regenerating recovery codes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Regenerate recovery codes
```

If you do not have access to your authenticator app and need to log in to

> Timescale Cloud you may need the recovery codes. After you use a recovery code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Timescale Cloud you can use your recovery codes. After you use a recovery code
```

to regain access to your account, it cannot be reused. If you've used all 10
recovery codes, you can generate another list of codes. Generating a new set of

> recovery codes invalidates any codes you previously generated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
recovery codes invalidates all previously generated codes. You
can also regenerate your codes if you lose access to your 
previous codes.
```

<procedure>

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

### Regenerating recovery codes

```

1.  [Log in to your Timescale Cloud account][cloud-login].
1.  Click the `User name` icon in the top-right of the console and select `Account`.

> 1.  In the `Account` page, go to `Two-factor authentication` section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  In the `Account` page, navigate to the `Two-factor authentication` section.
```

1.  Click `Regenerate recovery codes`. 
1.  In the `Two-factor authentication` dialog, type the verification code from
    your authenticator application.
    Alternatively, if you do not have access to the authenticator application,
    click `Use recovery code instead` to type the recovery code.
1.  Click `Next`.

> 1.  In the `Save your recovery codes` dialog, you can copy, download, or print the
>     recovery codes that appear.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  In the `Save your recovery codes` dialog, copy, download, or print the
    recovery codes, and save them in a safe place. These are used to recover your 
    account if you lose your device.
```

> 1.  Click `ok, i saved my recovery codes` after you have saved the recovery codes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Verify that you have saved your recovery codes, by clicking `OK, I saved my recovery codes`.
```

>     <highlight type="important">
>     A recovery code is a backup way to log in to Timescale Cloud when you can't
>     get your verification code from  your authenticator app. If you enable
>     two-factor authentication, save your recovery codes.
>     </highlight>

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

</procedure>

> ### Removing two-factor authentication

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Remove two-factor authentication
```

> If you need to enroll a new device for two-factor authentication, you may need
> to remove two-factor authentication settings from your account and then add it
> again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to enroll a new device for two-factor authentication, you can 
remove two-factor authentication from your account and then add it 
again with your new device.
```

<procedure>

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

### Removing two-factor authentication

```

1.  [Log in to your Timescale Cloud account][cloud-login].
1.  Click the `User name` icon in the top-right of the console and select `Account`.

> 1.  In the `Account` page, go to `Two-factor authentication` section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  In the `Account` page, navigate to the `Two-factor authentication` section.
```

1.  Click `Remove two-factor authentication`.

> 1.  In the `Are you sure` dialog, type the verification code from your
> 1.  authenticator application.
>     Alternatively, if you do not have access to the authenticator application,
>     click `Use recovery code instead` to type the recovery code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  In the `Are you sure` dialog, type the verification code from your
    authenticator application. Alternatively, if you do not have access 
    to the authenticator application, click `Use recovery code instead` 
    to type the recovery code.
```

---
title: Multi-factor user authentication
excerpt: Manage Multi-factor user authentication for your Timescale Cloud account
product: cloud
keywords: [mfa, accounts, admin]
tags: [two-factor user authentication]
---

# Multi-factor user authentication

You can use two-factor authentication to log in to your Timescale Cloud account.
Two-factor authentication, also known as two-step verification or 2FA, enables
secure logins that requires an authentication code in addition to your user
password. The code is provided by an app on your mobile device, such as Google
Authenticator.

## Configure two-factor authentication with Google Authenticator

Google Authenticator is a useful app for keeping track of your two-factor

> authentication keys. However, if you want something more open-source, there

Reviewer: ```suggestion
authentication keys. However, there
```

are other authenticators available to suit your needs.

> Before you begin, make sure you have:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Before you begin, make sure you have:
```

---
title: Multi-factor user authentication
excerpt: Manage Multi-factor user authentication for your Timescale Cloud account
product: cloud
keywords: [mfa, accounts, admin]
tags: [two-factor user authentication]
---

# Multi-factor user authentication

You can use two-factor authentication to log in to your Timescale Cloud 
account. Two-factor authentication, also known as two-step verification 
or 2FA, enables secure logins that
requires an authentication code in addition to your user password. The code 
is provided by an app on your mobile device, such as Google Authenticator.

> ## Configure two-factor authentication with Google Authenticator

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Configure two-factor authentication with Google Authenticator
```

<highlight type="warning">
If you lose access to the mobile device you use for multi-factor authentication,
and you do not have access to your recovery codes, you cannot sign in to your

> TimescaleDB Cloud account. To regain access to your account contact
> support@timescale.com.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TimescaleDB Cloud account. To regain access to your account 
[contact the support team](https://www.timescale.com/support).
```
